---
layout: post
title: Goals for 2015
date: 2014-12-29
description: New Year's resolution? Do only SOME of the things.
tags:
- goals
---

I've [referenced it before](http://melanie-richards.com/blog/execute), but a classic issue that comes up for me is an interest in too many things. Lack of focus has been helpful in some cases (especially as the role of a designer expands to include All The Things), but I worry that it distracts from achieving real depth in any one thing.

## Resolution
For 2015 my main goal is to, you know, chill out and focus on just a couple topics in creativity and life-long learning.

And those topics, in order of priority:

### Illustration
I tend to work mostly on web projects these days, so improving my illustration chops would be a logical complement to web design and development. My goal is to log 300 hours outside of work to illustration practice (~6 hours a week). The ultimate goal is to be able to execute several styles quickly.

6 hrs/wk feels a little light, but given all the other things a human does with their time it's at least realistic and can be adjusted.

### Javascript
Dev is an easy place to hear the siren song of exciting new things. For now I'll be focusing on Javascript: filling in the cracks in my prior knowledge, working more in vanilla JS (as opposed to jQuery), learning how to write more efficient scripts. JS is such a huge, huge world now so there's still plenty of room for exploration. 150 hours (~3 hrs/wk).

### Creative Writing
The older I get, the less I write. I don't feel the need to cultivate creative writing as a Real Skill, but I'd like to not lose touch with this outlet entirely. Once a week should suffice.

### Weaving & Knitting
I've been shopping for indoor activities: something with a creative angle that will keep my hands busy, but not precious enough that I feel the need to be good at it. I recently dabbled in weaving on a simple peg loom, and with a little bit of knitting. I'd like to keep exploring these fiber crafts—maybe take a class?—instead of bouncing around to something else, as I am wont to do.

Okay, that's it. Planning to do a quarterly check-in to review how things are going. What is your resolution this year (design-related or otherwise)?
