---
layout: post
title: Day 89 of 100DaysOfSpec, param and video elements
date: 2015-08-13
description: I read about the param and video elements in the HTML spec.
tags: 100DaysOfSpec
---

*I am reading and taking notes on the HTML specifications for 100 days as part of #The100DayProject. [Read the initial intent/backstory](http://melanie-richards.com/blog/100-day-project). I am a Microsoft employee but all opinions, comments, etc on this site are my own. I do not speak on behalf of my employer, and thus no comments should be taken as representative of Microsoft's official opinion of the spec. Subsections not listed below were read without comment.*

Currently reading in [4.7 Embedded content](http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/embedded-content-0.html#embedded-content-0)

UAs = user agents = browsers, etc.

## [4.7.5](http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/embedded-content-0.html#the-param-element) The param element

“The `param` element defines parameters for plugins invoked by object elements. It does not represent anything on its own.”

* Is a child of an `object` element, before flow content.
* Both possible attributes (`name` and `value`) need to be applied. Either one can have any value! When this condition is met, the `param` defines a parameter for its parent `object` element.
* You can have any number of `param` elements as children of `object` elements (0+).

## [4.7.6](http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/embedded-content-0.html#the-video-element) The video element

“A `video` element is used for playing videos or movies, and audio files with captions.”

Attributes besides globals:

* `src`
* `crossorigin`: how it handles requests from other origins
* `poster`: frame to show before the video plays. Pretty neat. Value is a URL.
* `preload`: “hints how much buffering the media resource will likely need”
* `autoplay`: whether the video can be played on page load. The word used in the spec is “hint”. Which means that the UA has flexibility in whether or not to honor the autoplay…
* `mediagroup` “groups media elements together with an implicit MediaController”
* `loop`: boolean
* `muted`: also a boolean
* `controls`: show UA controls
* `width`
* `height`
 
* Only one ARIA role available: `application`.
* Fallback content is allowed for old browsers. Specifically not meant to fix accessibility (a11y) problems.

### Strategies for a11y

* Captions embedded in the video or in external files using the `track element`
* Sign-language tracks embedded or provided in additional synced-up `video` elements
* Audio descriptions, embedded in video, or in an `audio` element “slaved” to the video element. And here we have bias baked into technical jargon. `-__-`
* Text in a WebVTT file referenced by a `track` element, “synthesized” into speech by the UA. This tech can also provide chapter titles.
* Can also link to or display text transcripts close to the `video` element.