---
layout: post
title: Day 7 of 100DaysOfSpec, 2.3 Case-sensitivity and string comparison
date: 2015-04-12
description: Recapping week 1 of The100DayProject, basically.
tags: 100DaysOfSpec
---

*I am reading and taking notes on the HTML specifications for 100 days as part of #The100DayProject. [Read the initial intent/backstory](http://melanie-richards.com/blog/100-day-project). I am a Microsoft employee but all opinions, comments, etc on this site are my own. I do not speak on behalf of my employer, and thus no comments should be taken as representative of Microsoft's official opinion of the spec. Subsections not listed below were read without comment.*

I don't have much to say on today's section (other than I now know the ASCII uppercase letters range from U+0041 to U+005A, and lowercase letters range from U+0061 to U+007A), so I guess I'll comment on progress so far:

1. I've already skipped a day (last Friday). Oops.
2. At some point last week I was thinking "it's possible I might actually finish before the 100 days are up!" Meh, not feeling that way now. But I did start thinking about what I'd read after finishing the HTML W3C recommendation. My first thought was reading the CSS spec, but apparently CSS3 doesn't exist as a single document (possibly because, as I read in another section of this HTML spec, that CSS support as a whole is not required of browsers). Rather, there appears to be separate documents covering different topics in CSS. I did see Nerd Twitter get excited over a [new draft of the SVG spec](https://svgwg.org/svg2-draft/)...
3. I'm somewhat regretting that I did not choose something visual for my 100-day project. It's been really fun seeing everyone else's work come in, and I'm a little jealous that my project isn't as sexy from a designer's perspective. This comes back to the classic problem of web designers (or anyone whose work straddles two disciplines): push to be really great at aesthetics? Work to improve dev skills? Try to be perfect at all the things?!