---
layout: post
title: Day 99 of 100DaysOfSpec, loading the media resource, contd.
date: 2015-08-28
description: I read more about loading media resources in the HTML spec.
tags: 100DaysOfSpec
---

*I am reading and taking notes on the HTML specifications for 100 days as part of #The100DayProject. [Read the initial intent/backstory](http://melanie-richards.com/blog/100-day-project). I am a Microsoft employee but all opinions, comments, etc on this site are my own. I do not speak on behalf of my employer, and thus no comments should be taken as representative of Microsoft's official opinion of the spec. Subsections not listed below were read without comment.*

UAs = user agents = browsers, etc.

Continuing to read in [4.7.10.5 Loading the media resource](http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/embedded-content-0.html#loading-the-media-resource)

Some extra info after the algorithms from the previous days’ notes.

The `preload` attribute takes one of the following keywords, which can be changed while the media resourced is being buffered or played:

* `none`: hint that the user might not need this resource, or that the server can save on traffic.
* `metadata`: hint that the user might not need the resource, but it might be a good idea to fetch metadata and possibly the first few frames. Metadata includes dimensions, duration, etc, and fetching that will put the `readyState` attribute at `HAVE_METADATA`. If some frames are fetched, that attribute will likely be `HAVE_CURRENT_DATA` or `HAVE_FUTURE_DATA`. I’m curious as to what the use case might be for setting the `preload` attribute to `metadata`…maybe some perf black magic?
* `auto`: Hint that the UA can load as much as it sees fit for the user.
* The empty string value for `preload`, like the `auto` keyword, has an Automatic state.

HTML authors can dynamically switch this `preload` attribute value once playback begins (i.e. don’t download the video unless the user clicks play, in which case ZOMG DOWNLOAD NOW).

The UA can choose to ignore the settings in this attribute, as it is just a hint. This is supposed to be in service of UX though: taking user settings or being smart about connectivity health. The `autoplay` attribute can also override `preload`. It’s okay, validation-wise, if those two attributes don’t agree.

There’s a `buffered` attribute that returns an object representing how much of the media resource the UA has buffered.